---
layout: news
title: "Samsung Adds Wallet from Blockchain Phone Rival Pundi X"
subtitle: "Rival manufacturers of blockchain smartphones, Samsung and Pundi X, appear to see the benefits of working together on crypto adoption"
date: 2019-07-11 19:09:21 +0300
img: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1510557880182-3d4d3cba35a5?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1350&q=80
---

Rival manufacturers of blockchain smartphones, Samsung and Pundi X, appear to see the benefits of working together on crypto adoption.

Announced by Pundi X in a blog post on Monday, the firms have entered a symbiotic relationship regarding their wallet tech, with Pundi X integrating with Samsung’s Blockchain Wallet and making its XWallet available to the Galaxy S10 phone’s blockchain app options.

“This presents a unique opportunity to push blockchain technology and blockchain-based digital assets into the mainstream, reaching the millions of Samsung smartphone users around the world,” firm says in the post.

Pundi X claims the news makes it the first fintech app in the S10’s blockchain ecosystem.

S10 users adding XWallet to the Samsung Blockchain Wallet will be able to move cryptocurrencies between the two apps. Pundi X suggests that users can use Samsung’s wallet to store cryptos securely, “like a savings account,” and moving them to the XWallet “checking account” for use in payments.

Pundi X added that, with XWallet recently becoming available via XPOS – the firm’s blockchain point-of-sale device – more payment options will be on offer for S10 users as a result. XWallet is also connected with XPASS, Pundi X’s NFC-enabled crypto payment card product.

Samsung launched its S10 flagship phone back in March, revealing a bold blockchain play that saw it offer the crypto wallet alongside decentralized apps (dapps), merchant payments and other features such as blockchain signing.

Details of Pundi X’s device were aired at the Mobile World Congress conference in Barcelona in February and a launch is expected later this year. The prototype XPhone is said to be able to make calls over a blockchain.